h1. interoperable web

h2. what is

* websites all working together automatically rather than having silos of 

h2. ostatus

* collection of standards

h3. 4 standards

* pub sub
* web finger
** discovery protocol 
* salmon
* activity streams

h3. oAuth 2.0

* will be important in developing interoperable web

h3. status.net

* only place its ostatus is implemented

h3. pubsubhubub

* webhooks
** if this activity is performed, then ping this website with information
** friendfeed - early adopter of this standard

* publisher and subscriber and then a hub
** add link to 
*** rel="hub" 
** subscriber registers with hub to listen

* publisher sends new post to hub
* hub pushes to subscriber

h4. superfeedr

* provides free hub server that you can use

h4. used by

* wordpress
* google
* statusnet

h3. webfinger

* standard from google
* e-mail = identity for most people

* given an email
** find a bunch of stuff 

h4. how does it work?

* host meta file
** serves as general well-known
** file called ".well-known/host-meta"

h4. redfinger

* ruby gem for using this 

h3. Salmon

* unifying the conversations
* backwards version of push
* allows link aggregators to publish back 
* across site comment stream without extra work

h4. no gem in ruby yet

h3. activity streams

* add verb to atom feed
* easy to implement

h4. used by

* facebook
* myspace
* other places

h3. intraoperable web

* distributed control with 

h3. oauth 2.0

* important for site-to-site communication
* complete re-write of oauth
** has levels 

h4. web server

* user authenticates host site

h4. user agent

* don't share secret

h4. native app

* one-time username/password use

h3. all work together


